---
title: 2020工大杯题解-F
date: 2020-12-02 21:32:55
tags:
	- OI 
	- 工大杯
	- 题解
	- 公众号同步推送
mathjax: true
categories: 题解
---

**个人题解，和比赛官方无关，仅供参考**

# 2020工大杯题解 - E - Lawn Pattern Design

# 题目描述

Mr. Leo is a famous computer scientist, he invited you and your classmates to go on a vacation in his new house in the mountains. After a day of playing, many of you felt comfortable and sighed: "It's quite nice to live in the mountains!". Mr. Leo agreed with that, and he decided to play a game with you, to make the travel even more interesting.

There is an unmaintained lawn next to Mr. Leo's house, he let you design a pattern for this lawn, and submit the pattern with a computer program. The lawn is 5 meters wide and 12 meters long, you are supposed to take one square meter as one unit, use "g" to indicate grass, and use "." to indicate bare ground. For example, an unmaintained lawn can be described as the following:

```
.gggg
ggggg
gg.gg
ggggg
g..gg
ggggg
ggggg
ggggg
ggggg
ggggg
gggg.
gggg.
```

You had no idea about the pattern. However, your friend classmate T came to encourage and team up with you. "No matter what difficulties we meet, don't be afraid, face it with a smile!" classmate T said, "Because the best way to overcome fear is to face it. Come on!". After listening to the encouraging speech, you felt confident and asked him what could you do to help him. Classmate T explains that he had always believed that nobody knows pattern design better than him, however, he knew nothing about computer science. So he needed you to write his program to output his wonderful design.

You accepted the task at once, and ask him when can you get the final design. classmate T said that good designs need time to perfect, and he needs to find a great way to inform the Chinese character element in his design. Just like he always says: "Normal pretty design, not ok. Pretty design with Chinese character element, ok!". After a night of work, classmate T finally gave you his design, please write a program to output it.

classmate T's design:

```
.g.g.
ggggg
.g.g.
ggggg
g...g
ggggg
g...g
ggggg
..g..
ggggg
..g..
..g..
```

### Input

There isn't any input for this problem.

### Output

Output classmate T's design.

# 题解

## 题目重述

逗比题，直接输出即可。

用草字拼个草。

## 题目解法

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
int main(){
    cout<<".g.g.\n"
          "ggggg\n"
          ".g.g.\n"
          "ggggg\n"
          "g...g\n"
          "ggggg\n"
          "g...g\n"
          "ggggg\n"
          "..g..\n"
          "ggggg\n"
          "..g..\n"
          "..g..\n";
    return 0;
}
```

## 彩蛋：

c / c++ 语言中， 如果两个字符串挨着， 中间没有代码， 如上面样例一样，就会合并为一个字符串。